README.md, before:

# Gofiber Scalar

Scalar middleware for [Fiber](https://github.com/gofiber/fiber). The middleware handles Scalar UI.

**Note: Requires Go 1.25.0 and above**

### Table of Contents
- [Signatures](#signatures)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Examples](#examples)
- [Config](#config)
- [Default Config](#default-config)
- [Constants](#Constants)

### Signatures
```go
func New(config ...scalar.Config) fiber.Handler
```

### Installation
Scalar is tested on the latest [Go versions](https://golang.org/dl/) with support for modules. So make sure to initialize one first if you didn't do that yet:
```bash
go mod init github.com/<user>/<repo>
```
And then install the Scalar middleware:
```bash
go get -u github.com/yokeTH/gofiber-scalar/scalar/v3
```

### Examples
Using swaggo to generate documents default output path is `(root)/docs`:
```bash
swag init
# if you use swag-v2
swag init -v3.1
```

Import the middleware package and generated docs
```go
import (
  _ "YOUR_MODULE/docs"

  "github.com/gofiber/fiber/v3"
  "github.com/yokeTH/gofiber-scalar/scalar/v3"
)
```

After Imported:

> For v2 and v3, you do not need to register Swag docs manually.

#### Using the default config:
```go
app.Get("/docs/*", scalar.New())
```
Now you can access scalar API documentation UI at `{HOSTNAME}/docs` and JSON documentation at `{HOSTNAME}/docs/doc.json`. Additionally, you can modify the path by configuring the middleware to suit your application's requirements.

Using as the handler: for an example `localhost:8080/yourpath`

```go
app.Get("/yourpath/*", scalar.New(scalar.Config{
	Path:     "/yourpath",
}))
```

#### Use program data for Swagger content:
```go
cfg := scalar.Config{
    BasePath:          "/",
    FileContentString: jsonString,
    Path:              "/scalar",
    Title:             "Scalar API Docs",
}

app.Get("/scalar/*", scalar.New(cfg))
```

#### Use scalar prepared theme
```go
cfg := scalar.Config{
    Theme:    scalar.ThemeMars,
}

app.Get("/docs/*", scalar.New(cfg))
```

#### Path based reverse proxy
Assuming `/api` is your reverse path, please include the following headers:
- `X-Forwarded-Prefix`
- `X-Forwarded-Path`
If you are unable to configure headers, you can alternatively use the `BasePath` setting. However, note that this may not work correctly in a localhost environment. You could implement it like this:
```go
cfg = scalar.Config{}
if os.Getenv("APP_ENV") == "PROD" {
    cfg.BasePath = "/api"
}
```

### Config
```go
type Config struct {
	// BasePath for the UI path
	//
	// Optional. Default: /
	BasePath string

	// FileContent for the content of the swagger.json or swagger.yaml file.
	//
	// Optional. Default: nil
	FileContentString string

	// Path combines with BasePath for the full UI path
	//
	// Optional. Default: docs
	Path string

	// Title for the documentation site
	//
	// Optional. Default: Fiber API documentation
	Title string

	// CacheAge defines the max-age for the Cache-Control header in seconds.
	//
	// Optional. Default: 1 min
	CacheAge int

	// Scalar theme
	//
	// Optional. Default: ThemeNone
	Theme Theme

	// Custom Scalar Style
	// Ref: https://github.com/scalar/scalar/blob/main/packages/themes/src/variables.css
	// Optional. Default: ""
	CustomStyle template.CSS

	// Proxy to avoid CORS issues
	// Optional.
	ProxyUrl string

	// Raw Space Url
	// Optional. Default: doc.json
	RawSpecUrl string

	// ForceOffline
	// Optional: Default: true
	ForceOffline *bool

	// Fallback scalar cache
	//
	// Optional. Default: 86400 (1 Days)
	FallbackCacheAge int
}
```

### Default Config
```go
var configDefault = Config{
	BasePath:         "/",
	Path:             "docs",
	Title:            "Fiber API documentation",
	CacheAge:         60,
	Theme:            ThemeNone,
	RawSpecUrl:       "doc.json",
	ForceOffline:     ForceOfflineTrue,
	FallbackCacheAge: 86400,
}
```

### Constants
Theme
```go
const (
	ThemeAlternate  Theme = "alternate"
	ThemeDefault    Theme = "default"
	ThemeMoon       Theme = "moon"
	ThemePurple     Theme = "purple"
	ThemeSolarized  Theme = "solarized"
	ThemeBluePlanet Theme = "bluePlanet"
	ThemeSaturn     Theme = "saturn"
	ThemeKepler     Theme = "kepler"
	ThemeMars       Theme = "mars"
	ThemeDeepSpace  Theme = "deepSpace"
	ThemeLaserwave  Theme = "laserwave"
	ThemeNone       Theme = "none"
)

var (
	ForceOfflineTrue  = ptr(true)
	ForceOfflineFalse = ptr(false)
)
```

Commit message:

Update reverse proxy configuration instructions
Clarified the order of path determination for reverse proxy configuration and provided an example implementation.

README.md, after:

# Gofiber Scalar

Scalar middleware for [Fiber](https://github.com/gofiber/fiber). The middleware handles Scalar UI.

**Note: Requires Go 1.25.0 and above**

### Table of Contents
- [Signatures](#signatures)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Examples](#examples)
- [Config](#config)
- [Default Config](#default-config)
- [Constants](#Constants)

### Signatures
```go
func New(config ...scalar.Config) fiber.Handler
```

### Installation
Scalar is tested on the latest [Go versions](https://golang.org/dl/) with support for modules. So make sure to initialize one first if you didn't do that yet:
```bash
go mod init github.com/<user>/<repo>
```
And then install the Scalar middleware:
```bash
go get -u github.com/yokeTH/gofiber-scalar/scalar/v3
```

### Examples
Using swaggo to generate documents default output path is `(root)/docs`:
```bash
swag init
# if you use swag-v2
swag init -v3.1
```

Import the middleware package and generated docs
```go
import (
  _ "YOUR_MODULE/docs"

  "github.com/gofiber/fiber/v3"
  "github.com/yokeTH/gofiber-scalar/scalar/v3"
)
```

After Imported:

> For v2 and v3, you do not need to register Swag docs manually.

#### Using the default config:
```go
app.Get("/docs/*", scalar.New())
```
Now you can access scalar API documentation UI at `{HOSTNAME}/docs` and JSON documentation at `{HOSTNAME}/docs/doc.json`. Additionally, you can modify the path by configuring the middleware to suit your application's requirements.

Using as the handler: for an example `localhost:8080/yourpath`

```go
app.Get("/yourpath/*", scalar.New(scalar.Config{
	Path:     "/yourpath",
}))
```

#### Use program data for Swagger content:
```go
cfg := scalar.Config{
    BasePath:          "/",
    FileContentString: jsonString,
    Path:              "/scalar",
    Title:             "Scalar API Docs",
}

app.Get("/scalar/*", scalar.New(cfg))
```

#### Use scalar prepared theme
```go
cfg := scalar.Config{
    Theme:    scalar.ThemeMars,
}

app.Get("/docs/*", scalar.New(cfg))
```

#### Path based reverse proxy
Assuming `/api` is your reverse path, the configuration will use the following order to determine the path:

1. `X-Forwarded-Prefix`
2. `X-Forwarded-Path`
3. `BasePath` (fallback if the headers are not set)

If you cannot configure the headers, you can use `BasePath` as a fallback. Note that this may break in a localhost environment. Example implementation:

```go
cfg = scalar.Config{}
if os.Getenv("APP_ENV") == "PROD" {
    cfg.BasePath = "/api"
}
```

### Config
```go
type Config struct {
	// BasePath for the UI path
	//
	// Optional. Default: /
	BasePath string

	// FileContent for the content of the swagger.json or swagger.yaml file.
	//
	// Optional. Default: nil
	FileContentString string

	// Path combines with BasePath for the full UI path
	//
	// Optional. Default: docs
	Path string

	// Title for the documentation site
	//
	// Optional. Default: Fiber API documentation
	Title string

	// CacheAge defines the max-age for the Cache-Control header in seconds.
	//
	// Optional. Default: 1 min
	CacheAge int

	// Scalar theme
	//
	// Optional. Default: ThemeNone
	Theme Theme

	// Custom Scalar Style
	// Ref: https://github.com/scalar/scalar/blob/main/packages/themes/src/variables.css
	// Optional. Default: ""
	CustomStyle template.CSS

	// Proxy to avoid CORS issues
	// Optional.
	ProxyUrl string

	// Raw Space Url
	// Optional. Default: doc.json
	RawSpecUrl string

	// ForceOffline
	// Optional: Default: true
	ForceOffline *bool

	// Fallback scalar cache
	//
	// Optional. Default: 86400 (1 Days)
	FallbackCacheAge int
}
```

### Default Config
```go
var configDefault = Config{
	BasePath:         "/",
	Path:             "docs",
	Title:            "Fiber API documentation",
	CacheAge:         60,
	Theme:            ThemeNone,
	RawSpecUrl:       "doc.json",
	ForceOffline:     ForceOfflineTrue,
	FallbackCacheAge: 86400,
}
```

### Constants
Theme
```go
const (
	ThemeAlternate  Theme = "alternate"
	ThemeDefault    Theme = "default"
	ThemeMoon       Theme = "moon"
	ThemePurple     Theme = "purple"
	ThemeSolarized  Theme = "solarized"
	ThemeBluePlanet Theme = "bluePlanet"
	ThemeSaturn     Theme = "saturn"
	ThemeKepler     Theme = "kepler"
	ThemeMars       Theme = "mars"
	ThemeDeepSpace  Theme = "deepSpace"
	ThemeLaserwave  Theme = "laserwave"
	ThemeNone       Theme = "none"
)

var (
	ForceOfflineTrue  = ptr(true)
	ForceOfflineFalse = ptr(false)
)
```
